.\" give.1 -- 
.TH GIVE 1 "6 Oct 2010" 
.SH NAME
give/take -- transfer files between users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B give username list
.br
.B give [-l] [-a] [username]
.br
.B give [-l] [-n] [-i] [-f] username list
.br
.B give -u username [list]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B give
and
.B take
are a set of companion utilities that allow a secure transfer of 
files form one user to another without exposing the files to third 
parties.  The somewhat strange syntax is a carryover from the 
original "give" utility written for the "LTSS" operating system.

The named files are copied to a spool area where they can be 
retrieved by the user running the "take" program.  Ownership of the 
files remains with the giver until they are taken, and will count 
against any file system quotas imposed on the giver.

Certain users may be limited to take files only from specific 
givers.  For these users, files may only be taken from givers 
who are members of the gt-<uid> group where uid is the UNIX id 
of the limited user.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a or \-\-all or \-\-regive
Use the filenames already given to the specified 
.I username
as the 
.I list
argument (also turns on \-f).
.TP
.B \-f
force overwrite -- files with conflicting names will be overwritten.
.TP
.B \-h
help  -- print a short list of command line flags.
.TP
.B \-i
interactive mode -- the files will be individually listed with a 
query as to whether they should be given.
.TP
.B \-l or \-\-list
list the files you have given.  If 
.I username
is specified, restrict the list to files given to 
.I name.
.TP
.B \-n
like the -l option, except use a narrow list format.
.TP
.B \-q
quiet mode -- fewer progress messages will be issed.
.TP
.B \-u 
the "ungive" option -- if the intended recipient has not
collected their files, the ungive option will delete them from the
spool area.  If a file list is specified, as in "give \-u
.I username
file1 file2", only the files listed will be deleted.  If no file list is specified, as in "give \-u 
.I username
", the \-a option is implied and all files currently given to
.I username
are deleted.
.TP
.B \-\-version
show programs version number, then exit.
.TP

In all cases,
.B username
is the username of the user to whom files have been given, and
.B list
is a list of 1 or more file names in the current directory.  

Give is not capable of giving directories.




.SH SEE ALSO

take(1)
